uyuni retail install (#459)
uyuni-project/uyuni-docs: modules/retail/pages/retail-uyuni-server-setup.adoc

[[retail-server-setup]]
= Retail Uyuni Server Setup

This section covers {productname} Server setup, using these procedures:

* Start {productname} setup with {yast}
* Create the main administration account with the {productname} {webui}
* Name your base organization and add login credentials
* Synchronize the openSUSE Leap channel
+
// ^^^ CHECKIT

[[retail-server-setup-yast]]
== Set up {productname} with {yast}

> This section will guide you through {productname} setup procedures.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section guides you through {productname} setup procedures.
```

.Procedure: {productname} Setup

> . Log in to the {productname} Server and start {yast}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. On the {productname} Server, at the command prompt, as root, start {yast}:
+
----
yast2
----
```

> . In {yast}, navigate to menu:Network Services[Uyuni Setup] to begin the setup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Navigate to menu:Network Services[Uyuni Setup] to begin set up.
```

> . From the introduction screen select menu:Uyuni Setup[Set up Uyuni from scratch] and click btn:[Next] to continue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. From the introduction screen, select menu:Uyuni Setup[Set up Uyuni from scratch] and click btn:[Next] to continue.
```

> . Enter an email address to receive status notifications and click btn:[Next] to continue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Type an email address to receive status notifications and click btn:[Next] to continue.
```

{productname} can sometimes send a large volume of notification emails.
You can disable email notifications in the {webui} after setup, if you need to.

> . Enter your certificate information and a password.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Type your certificate information and provide a password.
```

Passwords must be at at least seven characters in length, and must not contain spaces, single or double quotation marks (``'`` or ``"``), exclamation marks (``!``), or dollar signs (``$``).
Always store your passwords in a secure location.
+

[IMPORTANT]
====
You must have the certificate password to set up a {productname} Proxy Server.
====

> 

Reviewer: Not entirely certain why this is here. It seems pretty obvious.

Author: It is probably meant as a reminder.  If you lost it, you first must reinstall the server (or find the password, or somehow recreate the cert). I'm not sure whether the reminder makes sense.  If wanted I can delete it.

Author: I remove the admin decoration.

> . Click btn:[Next] to continue.

Reviewer: This should be attached to the previous step.

Author: ok

> . From the menu:Uyuni Setup[Database Settings] screen, enter a database user and password and click btn:[Next] to continue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Navigate to menu:Uyuni Setup[Database Settings] screen, type a database username and password, and click btn:[Next] to continue.
```

Passwords must be at at least seven characters in length, and must not contain spaces, single or double quotation marks (``'`` or ``"``), exclamation marks (``!``), or dollar signs (``$``).

> Always store your passwords in a secure location.

Reviewer: Repeating this is redundant. I would just say it once.

Author: It a different password.  At least in the past, the same restrictions did not apply. I must admit that I do not know whether the current listing is ok.

> . Click btn:[Next] to continue.

Reviewer: You just said this in the previous step, I think this one can be deleted.

Author: no, this one is the database password, the previous one was for the cert.

> . Click btn:[Yes] to run setup when prompted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Click btn:[Yes] to begin the setup process.
```

. When setup is complete, click btn:[Next] to continue.

> You will see the address of the {productname} {webui}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Take note of the address to access the {productname} {webui}.
```

. Click btn:[Finish] to complete {productname} setup.

== Create the Main Administration Account

This section covers how to create your organization's main administration account for {productname}.

[WARNING]
====
The main administration account has the highest authority within {productname}.
Ensure you keep access information for this account secure.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

We recommend that you create lower level administration accounts for organizations and groups.
Do not share the main administration access details.
====

.Procedure: Setting Up the Main Administration Account

. In your web browser, enter the address for the {productname} {webui}.
This address was provided after you completed setup.
For more information, see xref:retail:retail-uyuni-server-setup.adoc#retail-server-setup-yast[].

. Sign in to the {webui}, navigate to the menu:Create Organization[Organization Name] field, and enter your organization name.

. In the menu:Create Organization[Desired Login] and menu:Create Organization[Desired Password] fields, enter your username and password.

> . Fill in the Account Information fields including an email for system notifications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Complete the ``Account Information`` fields, including an email for system notifications.
```

. Click btn:[Create Organization] to finish creating your administration account.

When you have completed the {productname} {webui} setup, you are taken to the menu:Home[Overview] page.

== Synchronize the openSUSE Leap Channel

Use [command]``spacewalk-common-channels`` to obtain all needed channels:

> .Procedure:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Procedure: Synchronizing the openSUSE Leap Channel
```

. First the openSUSE Leap that is the parrent channel for all the following channels needed:
+
----
spacewalk-common-channels opensuse_leap15_2

> ----

Reviewer: This can probably go before the procedure, using a line something like "Before you begin, ensure you have access to the ``opensuse_leap15_2`` parent channel. Then the first step becomes "On the {productname} Server, at the command prompt, as root, register the parent channel" with the spacewalk-common-channels command.

Author: ok

+

> If you do not enable opensuse_leap15_2 first, you will see the following error:

Reviewer: This is troubleshooting, and should either go after the procedure, or in a tshooting section.

Author: at least for the moment, I'll move it after the procedure.

+
----
# ERROR: opensuse_leap15_2-x86_64 could not be found at the server
# ERROR: opensuse_leap15_2-uyuni-client-x86_64: redstone.xmlrpc.XmlRpcFault: unhandled internal exception: User 1 does not have access to channel opensuse_leap15_2-x86_64 or the channel does not exist
----

. Enable the child channels:
+
----
spacewalk-common-channels opensuse_leap15_2-updates
spacewalk-common-channels uyuni-proxy-stable-leap-152
spacewalk-common-channels opensuse_leap15_2-uyuni-client
----
+

> If everything is successfully finished, you will see this message:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If registration is successful, this message is shown:
```

+
----
# Base channel 'openSUSE Leap 15.2 (x86_64)' - exists
----

. Synchronize all repositories, which will take a lot of time to finish:
+
----
spacewalk-repo-sync -c opensuse_leap15_2-x86_64
spacewalk-repo-sync -c opensuse_leap15_2-x86_64-updates
spacewalk-repo-sync -c opensuse_leap15_2-uyuni-client-x86_64
spacewalk-repo-sync -c uyuni-proxy-stable-leap-152-x86_64
----

> 

Reviewer: I would avoid rewriting this procedure, honestly. Just copy the way we write it in the Client Cfg. Maybe also a good chance to find out if we can share snippets across books too :wink:

Author: this looks like a research project ;)

Reviewer: I think if we move the snippets folder up into the ROOT dir, then use full paths to include them, it should work. Definitely something to experiment with.

Author: ok, we can do this later.  FTM, I'll duplicate the snippets dir from the client-configuration guide.

// FIXME Starting from here, everything is preliminary

> // Feedback provided by Lukas

Reviewer: I have not proofed anything below this line.

For more information about creating activation keys, see xref:client-configuration:activation-keys.adoc[].

The activation key for a proxy (branch server) must contain these child channels:

* openSUSE Leap 15.2 Updates (x86_64)
* Uyuni Client Tools for openSUSE Leap 15.2 (x86_64)
* Uyuni Proxy Stable for openSUSE Leap 15.2 (x86_64)

The activation key for retail terminals based on openSUSE Leap 15.2 must contain these child channels:

* openSUSE Leap 15.2 Updates (x86_64)
* Uyuni Client Tools for openSUSE Leap 15.2 (x86_64)

== Bootstrapping

> Bootstrap repositories are now created automatically.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Bootstrap repositories are created automatically.
```

If something is missing, run the [command]``mgr-create-boostrap-repo`` manually.

=== Proxy

> For more information about proxies, see xref:installation:uyuni-proxy-registration.adoc[].
> 
> Bootstrap the proxy with the {webui} or on the command line using activation key created for proxy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The proxy can be bootstrapped using the {webui}, or at the command prompt.
Ensure you use the activation key you created for the proxy.

For more information about proxies, see xref:installation:uyuni-proxy-registration.adoc[].
For more information about activation keys, see xref:client-configuration:activation-keys.adoc[].
```

Author: thanks, I like this a lot!

[NOTE]
====
This proxy is going to be used as a retail branch server.

> ====

Reviewer: Probably better to take this out of an admon, and add it to the exposition at the top of the section :point_up:

Author: ok, done

> .Procedure: Uyuni Proxy specific steps

Reviewer: Needs a gerund

> . Check "Uyuni Proxy Stable for openSUSE Leap 15.2 (x86_64)" channel is assigned to the proxy at its system profile page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Check  that the ``Uyuni Proxy Stable for openSUSE Leap 15.2 (x86_64)`` channel is assigned to the proxy on the system profile page.
```
Probably want to do a "navigate to" instruction here.

> . Install the pattern for the {productname} Proxy:
> As [systemitem]``root`` enter:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. At the command prompt on the proxy, as root, install the proxy pattern:
```

+

----
zypper in -t pattern uyuni_proxy
----

> . To finalize the proxy setup run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Finalize the proxy setup:
```

+
----
configure-proxy.sh
----
+
[command]``configure-proxy.sh`` is an interactive script.

> For more information, see xref:installation:uyuni-proxy-setup.adoc#uyuni-proxy-setup-confproxy[].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information about the proxy setup script, see xref:installation:uyuni-proxy-setup.adoc#uyuni-proxy-setup-confproxy[].
```

. OPTIONAL: If you want to use the same system also as a build host, navigate to the client's system profile and check [systemitem]``OS Image Build Host`` as a [guimenu]``Add-On System Types``.

. Configure the proxy to run as a branch server.

> For example, enter such a network configuration :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example:
```

+

> // we'd better go for example.org

Reviewer: agreed.
